{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f1\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial;}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}{\f28\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Microsoft Sans Serif;}{\f84\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}
{\f85\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f87\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f88\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f89\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}
{\f90\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f91\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f92\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial CE;}{\f93\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Cyr;}{\f95\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Greek;}
{\f96\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Tur;}{\f97\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Arial (Hebrew);}{\f98\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Arial (Arabic);}{\f99\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Baltic;}{\f100\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}
{\f101\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f103\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}{\f104\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f105\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew);}
{\f106\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic);}{\f107\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}{\f308\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Microsoft Sans Serif CE;}{\f309\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Microsoft Sans Serif Cyr;}
{\f311\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Microsoft Sans Serif Greek;}{\f312\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Microsoft Sans Serif Tur;}{\f313\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Microsoft Sans Serif (Hebrew);}{\f314\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Microsoft Sans Serif (Arabic);}
{\f315\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Microsoft Sans Serif Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\s1\ql \li0\ri0\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\b\f1\fs32\lang1033\langfe1033\kerning32\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{\s2\ql \li0\ri0\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\b\i\f1\fs28\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 2;}{\s3\ql \li0\ri0\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\f1\fs26\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 
\sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 3;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 
header;}{\s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext16 footer;}{
\s17\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f1\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext17 Body Text;}}{\info{\title Counter-Strike: Condition Zero Mission Pack System}
{\author Michael Booth}{\operator cliffe}{\creatim\yr2004\mo4\dy29\hr16\min42}{\revtim\yr2004\mo4\dy29\hr16\min44}{\version3}{\edmins4}{\nofpages17}{\nofwords3140}{\nofchars17899}{\*\company Turtle Rock Studios}{\nofcharsws0}{\vern8229}}{\*\userprops 
{\propname _AdHocReviewCycleID}\proptype3{\staticval 1859658962}{\propname _EmailSubject}\proptype30{\staticval Mission pack doc}{\propname _AuthorEmail}\proptype30{\staticval mike@turtlerockstudios.com}{\propname _AuthorEmailDisplayName}\proptype30
{\staticval Michael Booth}}\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1800\dgvorigin1440\dghshow1\dgvshow1
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale90\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl {\footer \pard\plain 
\s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f1\fs20 (c) 2004 Valve Corporation.\~
 Counter-Strike: Condition Zero and Valve are trademarks or registered trademarks of Valve Corporation.}{
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f1\fs32 The Counter-Strike: Condition Zero}{\f1\fs32\super TM}{\f1\fs32 
\par Custom Mission System
\par }{\f1\fs20 V1.0 April 28, 2004
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel2\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\f1\fs26\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Overview
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f1 The Custom Mission System allows users to create their own Missions for use with }{\i\f1 
Counter-Strike: Condition Zero}{\f1 .  These Mission Packs may include new maps, new challenges, new bot personalities, new bot skins, and so on.
\par }{\f1\fs20 
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel2\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\f1\fs26\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {The Layout of a Mission Pack
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f1 Mission Packs are found in the czero\\
MissionPacks folder.  Each Mission Pack must have its own uniquely named folder.  
\par 
\par Below is an example file listing for a Mission Pack called "MyMission":
\par }{\f1\fs20 
\par }\pard \ql \li720\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 {\f2\fs20 czero\\MissionPacks\\MyMission\\Overview.vdf
\par czero\\MissionPacks\\MyMission\\Thumbnail.tga
\par czero\\MissionPacks\\MyMission\\Easy.vdf
\par czero\\MissionPacks\\MyMission\\Normal.vdf
\par czero\\MissionPacks\\MyMission\\Hard.vdf
\par czero\\MissionPacks\\MyMission\\Expert.vdf
\par czero\\MissionPacks\\MyMission\\BotProfile.db
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\fs20 
\par 
\par }{\f1\ul Overview.vdf
\par }{\f1 This file defines includes information such as the mission description, what team the player is on, which bot personality file to use, and so on.
\par 
\par }{\f1\ul Thumbnail.tga
\par }{\f1 The Overview.tga is a 24-bit image displayed as part of the Mission Pack's "splash screen".  It must be no larger than 256x256 and is scaled into an area that is 320x68 at a screen resolution of 640x480.
\par 
\par }{\f1\ul Easy.vdf, Normal.vdf, Hard.vdf, Expert.vdf
\par }{\f1 These files define the game rules, map p
rogressions, available teammates, enemies, and per-map challenges.  If these files are missing, the corresponding CareerGameEasy.vdf, areerGameNormal.vdf, CareerGameHard.vdf, and CareerGameExpert.vdf files from the czero folder will be used.
\par 
\par BotProfile.db:
\par This file defines bot personalities for use as teammates and enemies in the Mission Pack.
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel2\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\f1\fs26\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\page The Overview.vdf File
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f1 Below is an example Overview.vdf file in its entirety:
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li720\ri0\widctlpar\tx1440\tx3240\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 {\f28 "MissionPack"
\par \{
\par \tab "Author"\tab "Turtle Rock Studios"
\par \tab "Title"\tab "My CZ Mission"
\par \tab "Description"\tab "This is my custom mission pack for CZ."
\par \tab "URL"\tab "http://www.turtlerockstudios.com/"
\par \tab "SoloPlay"\tab "1"
\par \tab "CoopPlay"\tab "0"
\par \tab "Team"\tab "CT"
\par \tab "BGColor1"\tab "47 62 90"
\par \tab "BGColor2"\tab "0 0 0"
\par \tab "TextColor"\tab "255 255 255"
\par \tab "BotProfile"\tab "BotProfile.db"
\par \}
\par }\pard \ql \li720\ri0\widctlpar\tx1440\tx2880\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 {\f1 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1440\li1440\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f1 
\par Author:\tab The author of this Mission Pack.
\par Title:\tab The title of the Mission Pack.
\par Description:\tab A colorful description of the mission.
\par URL:\tab A website related to this Mission Pack, often the author\rquote s home page.
\par SoloPlay:\tab Unused but reserved for future utilization.
\par CoopPlay:\tab Unused but reserved for future utilization.
\par BGColor1:\tab Red, green, and blue (RGB) values between 0 and 255 that define the background color used for the Mission Pack user interface screens.
\par BGColor2:\tab Unused but reserved for future utilization.
\par TextColor:\tab RGB color values used for some Mission Pack text.
\par BotProfile:\tab The filename of a file containing the roster of bot personalities to use with this Mission Pack.
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel2\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\f1\fs26\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\page The Easy.vdf, Normal.vdf, Hard.vdf, and Expert.vdf Files
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f1 These files define the game structure.  E
ach file corresponds to the difficulty selected by the player.  In other words, if the player starts your mission with a difficulty of \'93normal\'94, the Normal.vdf file will be read.
\par 
\par It is highly recommended that you examine the CareerGame*.vdf files.  They contain the data for the standard CZ Counter-Terrorist Tour of Duty.
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1800\li1800\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1800\itap0 {\f1 InitialPoints:\tab The number of Reputation Points the player starts the game with.
\par MatchWins:\tab The minimum number of rounds a team must win in order to win a match.
\par MatchWinBy:\tab The number of wins a team must lead by in order to win a match.
\par Characters:\tab A space-separated list of bot names defining the roster of teammates that can be purchased with Reputation Points.  These bot names must have corresponding personality definitions in the bot database (ie: BotProfile.db).
\par CostAvailability:\tab Each teammate has a Reputation Point cost, from 1 to 5.  This section defines how many total Reputation Points the player must have to \'93unlock\'94 each cost level of teammate.  For example, a pair of numbers such as \'934\'94 and 
\'9315\'94 means that the player must have at least 15 Reputation Points to unlock cost 4 teammates.
\par Maps:\tab The set of maps used in this mission.  The name of each map section must match a bsp file located in czero\\maps, cstrike\\maps, or valve\\maps.  See the \'93Defining a Location (Maps)\'94 section for more information.\line  
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\i\f1\fs28\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\page Defining a Location (Map)
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f1 Maps are organized as \'93triplets\'94
, or sets of three maps. The first, second, and third maps form the first Tour of Duty, the fourth, fifth, and sixth are the second Tour of Duty, and so on.  All three maps in a Tour of Duty must be won in order to unlock the next Tour of Duty.
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1800\li1800\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1800\itap0 {\f1 
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx3600\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f28\fs20 \'93map name\'94
\par \{
\par \tab \'93bots\'94\tab \'93<list of enemy bot names>\'94
\par \tab \'93minEnemies\'94\tab \'93<count>\'94
\par \tab \'93threshold\'94\tab \'93<value>\'94
\par \tab \'93tasks\'94\tab \'93<list of tasks>\'94
\par \tab \'93FriendlyFire\'94\tab \'930\'94 or \'931\'94
\par \tab \'93commands\'94\tab \'93<console command string>\'94
\par \}
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1800\li1800\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1800\itap0 {\f1 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1 \'93map name\'94
\par The filename of the bsp to load for this location without the .bsp extension.  For example, \'93de_dust_cz\'94.
\par 
\par \'93bots\'94
\par This field is followed by a string containing a list of enemy bot names for this map.  Bots are added from left to right, in order.  For example, the list \'93Joe Fred Alex Barney\'94 would look up \'93Joe\'94
 in the missions bot database and add a bot with those parameters first, followed by \'93Fred\'94, \'93Alex\'94, and \'93Barney\'94 up to the desired number of enemies for that location.
\par 
\par \'93minEnemies\'94
\par This value defines the minimum number of enemies the player will face on this map.
\par 
\par \'93threshold\'94
\par This number defines the Reputation Point value above which one enemy is added for every additional Reputation Point until we run out of bots on the \'93bots\'94 line.
\par 
\par \'93tasks\'94
\par This field defines a list of tasks/challenges the player must complete to win this map.  Each task, and that task\rquote s parameters, must be enclosed within single quotes within the overall string.  For example:
\par 
\par         "tasks"       " 'kill 7' 'kill 2 survive' 'winfast 60' "
\par 
\par For a full list of tasks, see the Task Reference section.
\par     
\par \page \'93FriendlyFire\'94
\par If this is set to zero, friends cannot be hurt by each others weapons.  If \'93FriendlyFire\'94 is \'931\'94, friends can hurt each other.
\par 
\par \'93commands\'94
\par The \'93<console command string>\'94 is sent to the console when the map is loaded.  This can be used to change system parameters just as if the user had entered the string in the console.  Note that certain commands (ie: mp_startmoney) don\rquote 
t function, as they are reset by the system after these commands have been given.
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\i\f1\fs28\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\page Task Reference
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f1 
For each task listed below, required parameters are enclosed in < >, and optional parameters are enclosed in [ ].  Multiple optional parameters are separated by a vertical bar.
\par 
\par The optional parameter \'93survive\'94 means the player must complete the task in a single round without being killed.  The optional parameter \'93inarow\'94 means the player must complete the task over potentially several rounds without dying.
\par 
\par }{\b\f1\ul General Tasks
\par }{\f1 injure  <N>  }{\i\f1 [survive | inarow]
\par }{\f1 The player must injure at least <N> enemies.
\par 
\par injurewith  <N> <weapon>  }{\i\f1 [survive | inarow]
\par }{\f1 The player must injure at least <N> enemies using the weapon or weapon class <weapon>.
\par 
\par kill  <N>  }{\i\f1 [survive | inarow]
\par }{\f1 The player must kill <N> enemies.
\par 
\par killwith  <N> <weapon>  }{\i\f1 [survive | inarow]
\par }{\f1 The player must kill <N> enemies with the weapon or weapon class <weapon>.
\par 
\par killall
\par The player\rquote s team must win at least one round by eliminating everyone on the enemy team.
\par 
\par killblind  <N>  }{\i\f1 [survive | inarow]
\par }{\f1 The player must kill <N> flashbang-blinded enemies.
\par 
\par headshot  <N>  }{\i\f1 [survive | inarow]
\par }{\f1 The player must kill <N> enemies with headshots.
\par 
\par headshotwith   <N> <weapon>  }{\i\f1 [survive | inarow]
\par }{\f1 The player must kill <N> enemies with headshots using the weapon or weapon class <weapon>
\par 
\par winfast  <S>  }{\i\f1 [survive]
\par }{\f1 The player\rquote s team must win a round in less than <S> seconds.
\par 
\par }{\f1\ul 
\par \page Bomb Defuse Scenario Tasks
\par }{\f1 plant  <N>  }{\i\f1 [survive | inarow]
\par }{\f1 The player must plant the bomb <N> times.
\par 
\par defuse  <N>  }{\i\f1 [survive | inarow]
\par }{\f1 The player must defuse the bomb in <N> separate rounds.
\par 
\par preventdefuse  <N>  }{\i\f1 [survive | inarow]
\par }{\f1 The player must prevent any defuse attempts in each of <N> rounds. The task fails if the bomb is not planted or a CT starts to defuse.
\par 
\par killdefuser  <N>  }{\i\f1 [survive | inarow]
\par }{\f1 The player must kill a CT in the act of defusing a planted bomb <N> times.
\par 
\par }{\f1\ul 
\par }{\b\f1\ul Hostage Rescue Scenario Tasks
\par }{\f1 rescue  <N>  }{\i\f1 [survive | inarow]
\par }{\f1 The player must rescue at least <N> hostages.
\par 
\par rescueall}{\i\f1 
\par }{\f1 The player must rescue all of the hostages in a single round.
\par 
\par stoprescue  <N>  }{\i\f1 [survive | inarow]
\par }{\f1 The player must kill a CTs who is escorting hostages back to a Rescue Zone <N> times.
\par 
\par defendhostages  <N> 
\par No hostage may be rescued during each of <N> rounds.  Hostages may die, but they can't be rescued.
\par 
\par hostagessurvive  <N> 
\par All hostages must be living at the end of each of <N> rounds. No hostage can die, but they can be rescued.
\par 
\par 
\par }{\b\f1\ul VIP Scenario Tasks
\par }{\f1 killvip  <N>  }{\i\f1 [survive | inarow]
\par }{\f1 The player must kill the VIP <N> times.
\par 
\par 
\par }{\f1\ul \page }{\b\f1\ul Weapon and Weapon Class names
\par }{\f1 The names listed here are for use in the <weapon> parameter of tasks that require it.
\par 
\par pistol = Any pistol
\par glock = 9x19mm Sidearm
\par usp = KM .45 Tactical
\par p228 = 228 Compact
\par deagle = Night Hawk .50c
\par fn57 = ES Five-Seven
\par elites = .40 Dual Elites
\par }{\f1\ul 
\par }{\f1 shotgun = Any shotgun
\par m3 = Leone 12 Gauge Super
\par xm1014 = Leone YG1265 Auto Shotgun
\par 
\par SMG = Any submachine gun
\par tmp = Schmidt Machine Pistol
\par mac10 = Ingram Mac-10
\par mp5 = KM Sub-Machine Gun
\par ump45 = KM UMP45
\par p90 = ES C90
\par }{\f1\ul 
\par }{\f1 rifle = Any non-sniper rifle
\par galil = IDF Defender
\par famas = Clarion 5.56
\par m4a1 = Maverick M4A1 Carbine
\par ak47 = CV-47
\par aug = Bullpup
\par sg552 = Krieg 552
\par }{\f1\ul 
\par }{\f1 sniper = Any sniper rifle
\par scout = Schmidt Scout
\par sg550 = Krieg 550 Commando
\par g3sg1 = D3/AU-1
\par awp = Magnum Sniper Rifle
\par }{\f1\ul 
\par }{\f1 machinegun = Any machine gun
\par m249 = M249
\par 
\par shield = The Tactical Shield
\par 
\par knife = The Knife
\par 
\par grenade = The HE Grenade
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\i\f1\fs28\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\page Defining Preview Images for a Location
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f1 Each location requires two \'93thumbnail\'94 images for display in the interface.
\par 
\par The first one is the small square image used for the location\rquote s button within its Tour of Duty.  The second is the large preview image displayed when a location has been clicked on by the player.
\par 
\par The small button image must be a Targa image (.tga) that is 128 pixels wide and 128 pixels tall, with a filename identical to the map\rquote s bsp file (except, of course, for the .tga extension).  Place this image in the folder:  }{\b\f1 czero\\gfx\\
thumbnails\\maps.  
\par 
\par }{\f1 The preview image must be a Targa image that is 256 pixels wide by 110 pixels tall, again with a filename identical to the map (with a .tga extension).  Place this image in the folder: }{\b\f1 czero\\gfx\\thumbnails\\maps_wide}{\f1 .
\par 
\par Note that Steam users may have to create these folders if they do not exist.
\par 
\par For example, if the map de_mymap_cz.bsp was used in a mission, the following two images would need to be present:
\par 
\par \tab czero\\gfx\\thumbnails\\maps\\de_mymap_cz.tga
\par \tab czero\\gfx\\thumbnails\\maps_wide\\de_mymap_cz.tga
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1800\li1800\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1800\itap0 {\f1 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\i\f1\fs28\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\page Defining Bot Personalities
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f1 Defining a bot personality consists of specifying values for a bot\rquote 
s various attributes and labeling the values with a name, such as \'93Fred\'94.  These attributes influence and control different aspects of a bot\rquote s behavior, such as how observant they are, or how well they can aim their weapons.
\par 
\par While fairly straightforward, a bot personality database does contain a lot of data.  It is strongly recommended that interested players refer to the BotCampaignProfile.db and BotProfile.db files which contain the bot personalities for the retail game.

\par 
\par Data within a bot database is always contained within a }{\i\f1 data block}{\f1  which has the following form:
\par 
\par \tab <data block type> [<data block name>]
\par \tab \tab <attribute> = <value>
\par \tab \tab <attribute> = <value>
\par \tab \tab \'85
\par \tab \tab <attribute> = <value>
\par \tab End
\par 
\par <data block type> can be:
\par 
\par Default
\par }\pard \ql \li360\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin360\itap0 {\f1\fs20 This data block defines default values for all attributes.  
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1 
\par Skin <skin name>
\par }\pard \ql \li360\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin360\itap0 {\f1\fs20 This data block defines a \'93skin\'94 (player model) for later use.  It can contain a single attribute of \'93Model\'94
 which should be set to the name of the .mdl file without its extension.  The example below defines a skin for czero\\models\\player\\arctic.mdl:
\par }{\f1 
\par \tab Skin TerroristSniperSkin
\par \tab \tab Model = arctic
\par \tab End
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1 
\par Template <template name>
\par }\pard \ql \li360\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin360\itap0 {\f1\fs20 Templates define values for a related set of attributes.  Templates are then used by specific bot data blocks to \'93inherit\'94
 data values.  See the Data Inheritance section for more information.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1 
\par <template name>[+<template name> \'85] <bot name>
\par }\pard \ql \li360\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin360\itap0 {\f1\fs20 Defining a data block via the use of one or more template names creates a bot definition.  The values the bot\rquote s attributes receive are \'93inherited\'94
 by starting with the values in the Default data block, and then overwriting any attribute values found in the template blocks listed, evaluated from left to right. 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\i\f1\fs28\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Attribute Reference
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f1 
\par }{\b\f1 Name
\par Value}{\f1 : A string. If the name contains spaces, surround it with quotes (ie: \'93Cliffe\'94)
\par Description: The bot\rquote s name.  
\par 
\par }{\b\f1 Skill
\par Range}{\f1 : 0 to 100
\par }{\b\f1 Description}{\f1 : Defines the overall \'93skill\'94 of the bot. Low skill bots have terrible aim and don\rquote t look around very much, whereas high skill bots can 
have extremely good aim, try to check as many corners and hiding spots as they can, and know subtle things like using the knife to run faster, switching to the pistol when out of ammo, and so on.
\par 
\par }{\b\f1 Aggression
\par Range}{\f1 : 0 to 100
\par }{\b\f1 Description}{\f1 : Determines how aggressively a bot behaves. High aggression bots pay less attention to \'93danger\'94
 (ie: where teammates have died previously), are more likely to rush, and less likely to retreat.  Low aggression bots are just the opposite.
\par 
\par }{\b\f1 ReactionTime 
\par Range}{\f1 : 0.2 to 0.5 seconds
\par }{\b\f1 Description}{\f1 : Determines the reaction time of a bot. A bot\rquote s \'93reaction time\'94 is the delay between when a visual or audio event occurs and the bot becomes \'93aware\'94
 of it, and can begin to act upon it. This simulates the time it takes a human to process incoming stimuli and become \'93conscious\'94 of it.
\par 
\par }{\b\f1 AttackDelay
\par Range}{\f1 : Seconds of time before bot will open fire after acquiring a victim
\par }{\b\f1 Description}{\f1 : After a bot has become aware of an enemy, this duration must also elapse before it will begin firing upon its vic
tim. This attribute is primarily used for easy bots, allowing novice players additional time to react and aim their weapon before the bot opens fire.
\par 
\par }{\b\f1 Teamwork
\par Range}{\f1 : 0 to 100
\par }{\b\f1 Description}{\f1 : Defines how cooperative and \'93team oriented\'94 the bot is.  High teamwork bots are more likely to obey radio commands and stay with their teammates.  Low teamwork bots tend to \'93go rogue\'94 and do their own thing.
\par 
\par \page }{\b\f1 WeaponPreference
\par Value}{\f1 : \'93none\'94 or a buy alias such as \'93m4a1\'94
\par }{\b\f1 Description}{\f1 : Defines the bot\rquote s weapon preference.  A
 bot can have many WeaponPreference definitions in a row, specifying a prioritized list (earlier ones are favorite over later ones) of weapons the bot will try to buy or pick up from the ground.  A preference of \'93none\'94
 will cause the bot to buy a random weapon.
\par 
\par }{\b\f1 Difficulty
\par Value}{\f1 : EASY | NORMAL | HARD | EXPERT
\par }{\b\f1 Description}{\f1 : Defines the difficulty categories where this bot is used. Note that these flags can be combined, such as \'93NORMAL + HARD\'94, meaning the bot can be used on either the Normal or Hard difficulty setting.
\par 
\par }{\b\f1 VoicePitch
\par Value}{\f1 : 85 to 120 (100 is unshifted)
\par }{\b\f1 Description}{\f1 : Defines the pitch shift value this bot will use for its \'93chatter\'94.  Lower values create lower pitched voices.
\par 
\par }{\b\f1 Skin
\par Value}{\f1 : 0-4 or <skin name>
\par Description: Defines which \'93skin\'94
 to select when the bot joins the game.  Values 1 through 4 map to the associated skins on the player menu in game. A value of 0 selects a skin at random.  If a <skin name> is given, the skin must have been previously defin
ed using a Skin data block.  Skin data blocks can refer to custom skins other than the default CZ skins.  Custom skins should be placed in czero\\models\\player\\<skin name>\\<skin name>.mdl.
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1800\li1800\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1800\itap0 {\f1 
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1 
\par }{\f1\fs20 
\par }{
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\i\f1\fs28\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\page Data Inheritance in the Bot Database File
\par }\pard\plain \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f1 Defining a bot perso
nality involves specifying a dozen or more parameters.  If you want to create several bots, this means defining quite a lot of data.  To help organize and modularize this bot personality data, the Bot Database makes use of a very simple data \'93
inheritance\'94 mechanism.
\par 
\par Here is an example of how the inheritance mechanism works:
\par 
\par }\pard \qj \li720\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 {\f28\fs20 Default
\par     Color = Grey
\par     Shape = Circle
\par     Size = Medium
\par     Weight = Average
\par     Material = Wood
\par End
\par 
\par Template RedSquare
\par     Color = Red
\par     Shape = Square
\par End
\par 
\par RedSquare MyRedSquare
\par     Size = Small
\par End
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1 
\par The \'93Default\'94 entry defines initial values of all attributes, in this case \'93Color\'94, \'93Shape\'94, \'93Size\'94, \'93Weight\'94, and \'93Material\'94.  The next entry is a \'93Template\'94, which defines a data type named \'93RedSquare\'94
 that sets the attributes \'93Color\'94 and \'93Shape\'94 to \'93Red\'94 and \'93Square\'94, respectively.  Finally, the last entry actually instantiates an object of type \'93RedSquare\'94 called \'93MyRedSquare\'94 which sets \'93Size\'94 to \'93Small
\'94. The resulting values for \'93MyRedSquare\'94 are:
\par 
\par }\pard \qj \li720\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 {\f28\fs20   Color = Red
\par   Shape = Square
\par   Size = Small
\par   Weight = Average
\par   Material = Wood
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1 
\par \'93Weight\'94 and \'93Material\'94 remain at their default of \'93Average\'94 and \'93Wood\'94, since neither \'93RedSquare\'94 or \'93MyRedSquare\'94 changed them.
\par 
\par \page The bot database allows for a crude form of \'93multiple inheritance\'94 as well:
\par 
\par }\pard \qj \li720\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 {\f28\fs20 Default
\par     Color = Grey
\par     Shape = Circle
\par     Size = Medium
\par     Weight = Average
\par     Material = Wood
\par End
\par 
\par Template RedSquare
\par     Color = Red
\par     Shape = Square
\par End
\par 
\par Template BigAndHeavy
\par     Size = Large
\par     Weight = Heavy
\par End
\par 
\par RedSquare+BigAndHeavy MyBigRedSquare
\par     Material = Iron
\par End
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1 
\par In this example, a new entry has been added called \'93BigAndHeavy\'94 which sets the attributes \'93Size\'94 and \'93Weight\'94 to \'93Large\'94 and \'93Heavy\'94. Notice that the instance of \'93MyBigRedSquare\'94 now lists both \'93RedSquare\'94 and 
\'93BigAndHeavy\'94 as its type, combined with the addition symbol \'93+\'94.  The final values of \'93MyBigRedSquare\'94 are:
\par 
\par }\pard \qj \li720\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 {\f28\fs20 Color = Red
\par Shape = Square
\par Size = Large
\par Weight = Heavy
\par Material = Iron
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1 
\par \'93Color\'94 and \'93Shape\'94 were inherited from \'93RedSquare\'94, \'93Size\'94 and \'93Weight\'94 from \'93BigAndHeavy\'94, and \'93Material\'94 was set directly by the definition of \'93MyBigRedSquare\'94. Any number of basic types can be \'93added
\'94 together in this way.
\par 
\par With multiple inheritance, data is copied to the object in a left to right order.  If both \'93RedSquare\'94 and \'93BigAndHeavy\'94 had values for the same attribute, the final value would match the one in \'93BigAndHeavy\'94 since it came after \'93
RedSquare\'94.
\par 
\par \page How is this actually used with bot data?  It is very useful to break bot attributes into \'93weapon preferences\'94 and \'93difficulty levels\'94. For example, here are some example templates for difficulty levels:
\par 
\par }\pard \qj \li720\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 {\f28\fs20 Template Expert
\par     Skill = 90
\par     Aggression = 90
\par     ReactionTime = 0.2
\par     Difficulty = EXPERT
\par End
\par 
\par Template Hard
\par     Skill = 75
\par     Aggression = 75
\par     ReactionTime = 0.25
\par     Difficulty = HARD
\par End
\par 
\par Template Normal
\par     Skill = 50
\par     Aggression = 50
\par     ReactionTime = 0.4
\par     AttackDelay = 0.7
\par     Difficulty = NORMAL
\par End
\par 
\par Template Easy
\par     Skill = 0
\par     Aggression = 20
\par     ReactionTime = 0.5
\par     AttackDelay = 1.5
\par     Difficulty = EASY
\par End
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1 
\par \'85 and here are some templates defining weapon preferences:
\par 
\par }\pard \qj \li720\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 {\f28\fs20 Template Rifle
\par     WeaponPreference = m4a1
\par     WeaponPreference = ak47
\par     WeaponPreference = famas
\par     WeaponPreference = galil
\par     WeaponPreference = mp5
\par End
\par 
\par Template Sniper
\par     WeaponPreference = awp
\par     WeaponPreference = sg550
\par     WeaponPreference = g3sg1
\par     WeaponPreference = scout
\par     WeaponPreference = famas
\par     WeaponPreference = galil
\par     WeaponPreference = mp5
\par End
\par 
\par \page Template Shotgun
\par     WeaponPreference = xm1014
\par     WeaponPreference = m3
\par     WeaponPreference = famas
\par     WeaponPreference = galil
\par     WeaponPreference = mp5
\par End
\par 
\par Template Shield
\par     WeaponPreference = shield
\par     WeaponPreference = m4a1           // in case shield is disallowed
\par     WeaponPreference = ak47
\par     WeaponPreference = famas
\par     WeaponPreference = galil
\par     WeaponPreference = mp5
\par End
\par 
\par Template Spray
\par     WeaponPreference = p90
\par     WeaponPreference = tmp
\par     WeaponPreference = mac10
\par     WeaponPreference = mp5
\par End
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1 
\par These templates allow the easy creation of a bot named \'93John\'94 who likes to use rifles and is a pretty hard opponent:
\par 
\par }\pard \qj \li720\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 {\f28\fs20 Hard+Rifle John
\par     Skin = 3
\par     VoicePitch = 97
\par End
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1 
\par Creating a bot named \'93Fred\'94 who also likes rifles, but is a complete newbie, is just as simple:
\par 
\par }\pard \qj \li720\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 {\f28\fs20 Easy+Rifle Fred
\par     Skin = 2
\par     VoicePitch = 110
\par End
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1 
\par By mixing and matching templates, a large number of bots can be created quickly. This arrangement also facilitates \'93tuning\'94 bot behaviors - if \'93hard\'94 bots are too hard, the values can be changed in just one place (the \'93Hard\'94
 template), and all hard bots will be updated as a result.
\par 
\par Modularizing bot personality data in this way keeps a large amount of data organized and manageable. 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par }{\b\f1\ul  \page Distributing Mission Packs
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1 
The simplest way to distribute your Mission Pack is to zip up all of your custom assets (maps, user interface graphics, player models, your mission pack folder, and so on) into a single zip file, retaining the requir
ed folder structure.  This zip file can then be shared with other CZ players, who can unzip the file in their main game folder, start the game, and select your mission from the dropdown menu.
\par 
\par For example, MyMission.zip could contain the following:
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li720\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 {\f28\fs20 czero\\MissionPacks\\MyMission\\Overview.vdf
\par czero\\MissionPacks\\MyMission\\Thumbnail.tga
\par czero\\MissionPacks\\MyMission\\Easy.vdf
\par czero\\MissionPacks\\MyMission\\Normal.vdf
\par czero\\MissionPacks\\MyMission\\Hard.vdf
\par czero\\MissionPacks\\MyMission\\Expert.vdf
\par czero\\MissionPacks\\MyMission\\BotProfile.db
\par czero\\gfx\\thumbnails\\maps\\cs_newmap_cz1.tga
\par czero\\gfx\\thumbnails\\maps_wide\\ cs_newmap_cz1.tga
\par czero\\gfx\\thumbnails\\maps\\cs_newmap_cz2.tga
\par czero\\gfx\\thumbnails\\maps_wide\\ cs_newmap_cz2.tga
\par czero\\gfx\\thumbnails\\maps\\cs_newmap_cz2.tga
\par czero\\gfx\\thumbnails\\maps_wide\\ cs_newmap_cz2.tga
\par czero\\maps\\cs_newmap1_cz.bsp
\par czero\\maps\\cs_newmap1_cz.txt
\par czero\\maps\\cs_newmap1_cz_detail.txt
\par czero\\maps\\cs_newmap2_cz.bsp
\par czero\\maps\\cs_newmap2_cz.txt
\par czero\\maps\\cs_newmap2_cz_detail.txt
\par czero\\maps\\cs_newmap3_cz.bsp
\par czero\\maps\\cs_newmap3_cz.txt
\par czero\\maps\\cs_newmap3_cz_detail.txt
\par czero\\newmap.wad
\par czero\\sound\\kaboom.wav
\par czero\\sound\\crunch.wav
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1800\li1800\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1800\itap0 {\f1 
\par }\pard\plain \s17\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f1\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {(c) 2004 Valve Corporation.\~
 Counter-Strike: Condition Zero and Valve are trademarks or registered trademarks of Valve Corporation.}{
\par }}